to do with selecting the new members. As you think
back, was the group rather select in its quality?
Yes, I think so. A lot of people looked on it that
were not members as sort of a fraternity. And as you
think back, was there any part of the, any unit of
the Corps that had more than its share of RV
members? I don't think so. There were some that
really didn't have much. I don't remember that
there were an awful lot of fellows from the
infantry. I just, I don't remember that. In the
Corps in your day, was there any part of the Corps
that supposedly was the most distinguished, the
best students, or the most admired? I think not. I
think in each regiment, though, there might have
been a troop, a battery, or a company. Where, for
example, in Sea Battery Coast is where we call them
the eggheads. They seem like to be the best
students of the bunch. Was there anything at the
bottom of the list that was supposed to be? No, I
don't think so. And you were in the outfit you were
in almost by accident? Sure. Okay. Let's see. Go
back to the routine of the day. When you weren't in
class during the day, where did you go? Well, if you
were a freshman, you went back to the dormitory to
be available to run details. Okay. Could you hide
out in the library? No. You only could go to the
library if you had permission. and you'd have to
put it on your door if you were a freshman, at least
in my outfit. I had permission from Mr. So-and-so
to go to the library. Where could you get a
Coca-Cola? Casey's in the basement of the YMCA was
a drugstore sort of thing you could get if you had
any money.
There was nothing at the North Gate. Then describe
dining. Well, they was based on the Army ration, so
we were told in those days. I don't know of anybody
that ever starved to death, but it was something
less than the best. Where did you eat? I ate at
Sabisa. Describe a meal for a freshman. Well, then
we all ate the same thing. You had assigned tables.
You marched in, and you sat down. And the freshmen
served, the upperclassmen. And then the freshmen
served themselves. And every article of food, of
course, had a name. Sheriff the Chair. Well, bread
was gun whiting. Dessert was kush. Salt and pepper
was sand and nothing. You didn't call it anything
by its name. If the food was considered inedible,
it was served family style, both. a senior, a
senior, who would sit at the head of the table, take
that bowl, and here's a big passageway out there,
and he'd put it out in the middle of the floor. And
the waiters, who were students, they were called
Sabisa volunteers, treated with great respect
and reverence and told about it. They're waiters,
but they're working their way through school, and
you treat them with utmost respect. So nobody,
because they had to work, was made to feel like they
were any less. Very democratic. But now, you lost
me on. Well, and they'd pick it up. Oh, okay. These
waiters would pick it up and take it away. All
right, what was, do you remember any real favorite
food, Sabisa food of yours? No. What was the worst?
Friday at noontime. What was it? Fish. Fish.
Because in those days, it was required that the
Catholics eat fish on Friday. Did you all have a
name for it? I can't remember the name of it. All I
know is I couldn't go in the mess hall. I could march
down to the door, but I couldn't. The smell of it
just was so offensive to me. Even when Sugar and I
were married, she never cooked fish in the house
because it made me sick. All right, then, what
about drills? Where and how? We had the drill field
there in front of the Memorial Student Center.
Okay. But it wasn't just restricted. There was a
lot of open space around. How often did you all
drill? Once a week in your outfit, and sometimes
more. For how long was that? Well, a couple hours,
and some afternoon. And wearing what? Uniform.
Everybody wore a uniform every day. Every day.
Every day. Every day. All right. Now it's weekend.
And during your four years, where could y'all go
for a good time? No place.
There were two places. I can't remember.
Hardlickers was one. It was down past where Kyle
Field is on the road to Weldon. Can you describe
Hardlickers? Well, it was just a beer joint.
Typical, true to form, beer joints. And what was
the favorite beer of undergraduates then? I don't
know, Jack's was in Pearl and whatever. John
Lindsay thought it would be Grand Prize. Grand
Prize. See, he's a Houstonian. Yeah, that's
right. There was a Grand Prize brewery in Houston.
As a matter of fact, the Grand Prize brewery in
Houston opened their gates when there was an A&M
Court trip to Houston. and the court took
advantage of it. Go out there and get free beer. Was
it permissible for y'all to drink beer at Hard
Liquors? Sure. That was not contrary to any? No. Do
you remember any 18 or older or 21 or older? No. No. I
don't think there was at that time. No, in the first
place, not very many out there because it cost
money. And most of the kids were like me. They were
too poor to even have a bag. Who was in there other
than Aggies? Nobody. Oh, as far as I know. So it was
almost all male. Yeah. Well, all weekends there
would be some gals in there. All right. And what did
you all call the place west of the river where you
could buy alcohol? I don't remember. We called it
across the river. It wasn't called Whiskey Bridge
then? I had no recollection of it. It was at Easley
Beach. It was on the other side of Bryce Road. How
often did y'all go to Bryant? Again, it depended.
See, called quarters was at 7.30, 7 o'clock, 7.30.
And you could only, there was one night a week.
Right back where Puryear and Long were was a, we
called it the... Gosh, I can't remember what it
was. It was a theater there.
And they showed movies, and they were not every
night of the week, one night of the week. It just
wasn't easy to, you couldn't be out as a freshman or
sophomore in my outfit after call to court without
permission. Couldn't go to the library without
permission. You couldn't do anything. What kind
of activities occurred at Guyon Hall? None to my
recollection. I only remember being there one
time. So there weren't movies? I'm not saying
there weren't movies. I don't remember. All I
remember is that's where you got the message, look
to your right, look to your left. Now only one of the
three of you will be here four years from now. When
was that message? Fish induction day. Was that
when all of you were first brought together?
Correct. Did you take, was there any ceremony or?
No, there were no fish camps in those days. Okay.
You just were told to be down there and that's where
the big assembly building was. It was down at one
end of the military wall, some beach at the other
end. When you arrived, did you know the Aggie War
Hymn and the spirit? No, you learned those pretty
quickly. The South Forks are pretty quick
teachers. Okay. Let's see. The easier you learn,
the easier it is. When did you like A&M from the
beginning?
I like some things about it. I can't imagine
anybody liking A&M your first year or even your
second year. You just were nothing. Nothing. But
you didn't leave. No. Yeah, lots left. No, but you
did. No, but there were 45 freshmen, as I recall, in
Mount Mary. And some drop out the first week. When
things started clouding up, they had enough. Then
you get your mid-semester report card. And
grades, and if you're not there, they kick you out
of
school. And so a lot would leave at that time. All
I'm saying is that there were 45 freshmen when we
graduated, there were 12 seniors. So one, in our
numbers, a fourth in your outfit. My outfit, yeah.
Graduated on time in four years. As a matter of
fact, every senior that was in my outfit didn't
graduate in four years. My roommate, for example,
he was still taking calculus. Was your roommate
the same four years? No, no, no. No, he didn't
graduate in four years. I don't know if he
graduated in five. Did you have a special, special
Aggie undergraduate friend or friends? Oh, yeah.
Tell me. Well,
curiously enough, they were not in my outfit. They
were in my regimen. Joe Slicker was...
S-L-I-C-K-E-R. Yeah. He was captain of the RVs my
senior year, or our senior year, and he was from
Cisco, Texas, and they called him the Cisco Kid.
Then Dan Grant was from Dallas. James J.
Gallagher, his father worked for the Katy
Railroad, was from Smithville. He died two months
ago. And myself. And... We were awfully close,
very, very close. And what brought you together? I
don't know. We were all in the RVs for one thing. We
were all in the same regiment. We went to summer
camp. We bought a car together. Oh, it cost us $30.
It was a 29 Packard. Wouldn't we like to have it now?
Lord have mercy. We sold it for $5. It quit running.
We just left it on the street. And it was picked up by
the sheriff or somebody. And somebody came by, I
remember our senior year, at dinner time. And they
said, Mayo, are you one of the owners of Blue
Packard? I said, yeah. I said, where is it? He said,
well, the police have it. He said, do you all want to
sell it? I said, well, sure. So the others were
nearby. Those three were all in D batter. I don't
know.
Well, first of all, Dan Grants had a nickname. His
nickname was Snuffy. It was Joseph Slicker,
Joseph Gallagher. And my middle name was Joseph.
So we had Joe, Joe, Joe, and Snuffy. And we were the
owners of that Packerdog. Was Derwood T. Varner
one of your? No, Woody Varner? He was ahead of us.
Woody Varner was the, he was a corps commander. My
recollection is Wayne Stark was a regimental
commander at the Coastal Territory while I was
there. I forget whether he was in the class of 38 or
39, I forget, maybe the 39 class, but I knew Woody
Varner and saw Woody Varner after the war. As a
matter of fact, after I came back from Washington,
I saw him in Dallas. He was on the board of some big
company, but I never had any society with him, no
social My recollection of a little bit of homework
is that he was an outstanding student in almost
every measurable way. Well, that's one reason why
he was a cadet colonel. I don't remember his class.
Let's see, we asked about memorable, of your four
years, were there some important teachers,
advisors, important in shaping your life?
I don't think so. Who'd you go to for advice?
Nobody. In those days, you never talked to
professors. It was brown nosy. So if you did that,
and you just didn't do it, it was a no-no.
When
the seniors in my regiment went on active duty, We
went to Fort Monroe, Virginia to artillery
school. And after that, we were sent to two
different regiments at Fort Bliss, Texas. And I
wound up in the 63rd Coastal Artillery. This is
before I transferred to the field. And there were
17 second lieutenants from my class assigned to
that regiment. 16 of them classmates of mine.
There were 63 officers in that regiment. Yeah, 63,
all West Pointers are Thomason Act officers, or
some officers that had been reserved, had been
called to active duty, and then this group of
second lieutenants. When I got there where there
were no OCS men, some came later out of that number
one, number two, number three class. Boy, now you
talk about soldiers and officers. They were, or
they wouldn't have been in those early OCS
classes. In any event, I was in that regiment until
September 1942. And when I left, I was 1st
Lieutenant, and I went by to pay my respects to the
regimental commander, Popsky. We didn't call him
Pop. He was a bird carol. When the war started, he
was a bird carol. He just passed over. And we had a
little visit to the regimental headquarters, and
I told him what a pleasure it had been and a
privilege to serve in his regiment. And I think
that everybody held him in utmost respect and so
forth. He said, I want to tell you something. He
said, I know when this Aggie crowd hit this
regiment. I remember it well. It was before the
war. Everybody looking down their nose at you. Why
don't you second lieutenant from that Texas A&M?
Hey, this is Wes Warner talking. And he said, I'm
losing all of you now. I said, I want to tell you that
the first thing that I noticed, there wasn't an ass
kisser among you. And I told him, I said, that was a
no-no. It's good. I said, we called it in very
vulgar terms and so forth. And I said, you called it
ass kissing? And I said, yeah. We just didn't do it.
Life would have been a hell if anybody ever saw you
or heard that you had talked to a professor.
Absolutely not. This was a terrible thing, but it
was true. While you were a student, did students
ever have a real physical fight? I never saw. Two
Aggies fight. I understand they do it now
sometimes. I heard of a couple involving the
football team. Let's see, did I ask you about any
kind of unique prank, Good Bull stunts that y'all
heard of? No, other than airing out and floating.
Religious activities on the campus? Some. Where?
What sort? Well, none on the campus. That chapel
hadn't been built in those days. But there were
churches down at Northgate. Did many students go?
I don't think so. I didn't. DeWare, what happened
at DeWare Fieldhouse? Well, of course it was there
and it's torn down now. But it was very much
standing. And I know Charlie DeWare. It was named
after his father. But DeWare is a long time Ackie
family.
There was no, what's the basketball stadium now
that they've just turned the lights out? G.
Raleigh. G. Raleigh wasn't there. But tell me
about DeWare. Was it big? Did you think? No, but
when you got there, did it seem big or little? It
just was a gym. Okay. And did you ever go over there?
Sure. Sure. We had intramurals there. Intramural
basketball was in DeWare. And that's where the
Aggies played. Yeah. Did a student ever get
involved in intramurals? What do you mean, get
involved? Did you ever participate? Oh, listen,
it was very important. See, I'm asking you with a
straight face. Yeah, well, it was very important
in those days. The 54 batteries, troops, and
companies were divided into leagues, and we
played softball, football, a game called
speedball. swimming, diving, track,
volleyball, horseshoe, water polo. There were
eight or nine intramural activities and one
outfit was declared the intramural champion for
the year. A very coveted thing. Was it considered a
kind of a booby prize to be last? I don't know that it
was a booby prize, because we didn't permit that in
our outfit. We were one and two. We were just
strong. What were the major optional student
activity groups? Tell me about the Aggie band.
Well, of course, the band was central to
everything, as it is now, as far as the Corps is
concerned, or even the university. Was it similar
to, who was the band director? It was probably the
roughest, toughest outfit on any pole. Who was the
band director? Well, Colonel Toler's processer.
I can't remember his name. Singing cadets?
Singing cadets, yes. And where did they perform? I
don't know. Just where they do now, I guess. I
really don't know. I don't know that I ever heard of
them more than once or twice. Was there a student
government? No. No, the Corps was the government.
You were talking about elections a while ago. Tell
them about student elections. Well, they were
just hat-card elections. You had a student body
president, as I recall, and certainly I know you
had a president of each of the classes. I'm not sure
that we had a student body president. I doubt that
we did. I think we just had class presidents. But
I'm not sure about that. That was 57 years ago. Now,
this hat cord, tell me about it. Well, the infantry
wore blue hat cards, and they voted the way they
were told to vote. We wore red hat cards. We voted
the way we were told to vote. And where did they tell
you how to vote? Well, right out in the broad
daylight. They stood there and watched you vote.
Where was the poll? In the academic building, in
the old tunnel there. And the seniors would meet
ahead of us and decide the alliances between the
regiments and who they were going to vote for.
Events during the year. R.B.' 's was a very
important weekend. You did it during the Easter
holidays when they left the campus. It was
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, you're back
in school on Monday The whole student body left the
campus, except certain foreign countries or
whatever. Kids couldn't get away. And that's when
the RVs had the run of the campus. We had national
bands come. We had a tea dance on Saturday
afternoon, for example. It's a piece of it. And now
this initiation that you talked about, that
occurred early in April? Yes. And then the Easter
break, that weekend, came after that. Well,
that's right. You were a full company then. It
might have been before the first of April. Could
have been in March. Okay. And
was there a bonfire? Sure. Where? Well, it was over
on the other side of the railroad tracks, but it was
not organized like it is now. There was no way.
Well, what did you all burn up? Just scrap wood. Oh,
they went out and collected wood. Where did they
get it? Various places, and we never built an
outhouse.
You mean there was an outhouse on there each year?
Each year. It came from North Bride. Different
outfits. Went into North Moraine with a rope and a
truck and pulled one down and loaded it up in back of
the truck and put it up on top of the mine fire and
burned it. Which, what students normally
gathered most of the material? Well the
underclassmen. The seniors didn't do anything.
Okay, let's see. Then was there midnight yell
practice? Sure. Before ever ball game. Held? For
the Y. That's where all of y'all practiced. Okay.
Silver Taps, tell me about that. Yes. Describe
Silver Taps. Well, it's like it is today, except
that everybody was there. Everybody was there.
What did? Since most of them I lived on campus, you
see. And I've gone out to Silver Taps there,
Mitchell Hall my junior and senior year, in my
pajamas and a rope. Just standing there because
you're right there by the academic building. What
did it mean to your heart? It meant a lot to
everybody. Very important. Very important. Make
believe that I had never heard of or seen Silver
Taps. Describe it for me. Well, name, of course,
for a student who had died since the last time he was
out and was posted at the base of the flagpole in
front of the academic building. So we knew who it
was. Better remember the battalion was just
published once a week in those days, not daily. And
just before it got around, I think it was all
Tuesday like it is now, and we had to do silver taps.
And the
RVs did not participate in it like it is now. And
everybody just gathered there in front of the
academic building. the whole cover, and they
played the taps just the same as they do today.
Nothing was ever said, no words, everything was
very hushed. And after the silver taps played in
each of the directions they played, it's all over.
You just go back to your room. Your hole, we called
it. All Britain Carillion was not there playing
Christian hymns on the bells. The RVs didn't
march. There was no rifle fire of any kind. It just
was a very quiet, dignified cellar. Was there an
Aggie muster? Sure. Where? Well, let me tell you.
The muster was something that we talked about and
in my day didn't do. And they didn't do it for some
time before me. It was an old, old custom. And then
it just died. You mean y'all didn't have a muster?
No, we did not. We did not.
Then on Corregidor,
somebody remembered muster, a bunch of Aggies,
April 21, 1941. Or it could have been 42. And it was
revived then. And the word just spread throughout
the Pacific Theater of Operations. And we had one
on Okinawa in April 1945. They had them in Europe.
The Army commander, Vinegar Joe Stillwell, the
commanding general of the 10th Army on Okinawa.
We landed on Okinawa on Easter Sunday. Aggie
Pro-1, 1945, with 100,000 Japanese on it now.
Bloodiest battle in the Pacific. Four Army
divisions and two Marine divisions. And on the
21st of April, there was a muster. And an order came
down from Army headquarters, from Vinegar Joe
Stillworth. If possible, Aggies can be
temporarily relieved. We're fighting the
Japanese. from their duties to attend their
muster. And they had coordinates of a road
junction. And guys, since you start showing up in
Jeeps, they just parking here and there, and we got
out of the Jeeps, we all made a circle, held hands,
sang the spirit of Aggieland, got back in our
Jeeps, went back to back to Japanese. And of
course, we're not all there. I mean, all the Aggies
weren't there. was a very important time. First
muster I ever attended. Okay, let's go back to the
campus now.
You graduate in the spring of 1941. Correct. What
world or national events during your
undergraduate days do you remember kind of
catching your attention? Well, I think it
depended on who you were. What caught my attention
was that war was imminent. was a subject matter of
my speech on Mother's Day. I don't say I was more in
tune with it, but others were. Plus the fact that I
came in from class in April, I think it was, early,
early April, maybe mid-April. And the first
sergeant said, here's a letter for you. I said,
when did you start? picking up my mail. I had two
room orders. He said, this didn't come through the
post office. It came through the commandant's
office. It was ordering me and a whole host of
others to active duties. And we were listed in
there, given Army serial numbers. We were listed
alphabetically where we were to go and when. I
didn't make final review my senior year. We were at
Fort Monroe, Virginia. Had a special exercise for
a two or three hundred of us one week before, and a
special commissioning exercise for us ahead of
regular graduation and commissioning time,
because we had to be at various places, Fort Monroe
and some other place, on the very day that the final
review was scheduled. Where were those
ceremonies held, that commissioning and
commencement for you all, do you remember?
Who came to that? Did your mother come? Oh my Lord,
no. My mother was on the campus one time. That was
Mother's Day, my senior year. Some parents
perhaps were there. So this was not a big event? No,
no it wasn't. Not like they have today.
So those of us that were on those orders had said,
The following named second lieutenants, upon
satisfactory completion of their academic work
and being commissioned and so forth, are hereby
ordered to active duty for one year.
And of course this was, we're talking about April
1941. Then in May of 1941 it became a reality. In the
meantime, The draft was started in 1940. The
National Guard was federalized in 1940.
September of 39, the war in Europe started. So
hell, we were at A&M, we knew that there was a war
going on. Who did you all think would be the enemy?